[Blog] What is a Slice (#65)
kubeslice/docs: blog/what-is-a-Slice.mdx

KubeSlice achieves this by creating logical application **Slice** boundaries that allow pods and services to communicate efficiently across clusters, clouds, and data centers.  

A **slice** is one of the key components and in this particular article we will understand what exactly it is and how it enables KubeSlice to tackle the problems of achieving multi-tenancy on a multi-cluster architecture in Kubernetes.

### What is a Slice?

One of the best real-world examples out there of a Slice is the concept of **Network Slicing** in 5G networks today. 
Network Slicing is a method of creating multiple unique **logical** and **virtualized** networks over a common (shared) infrastructure. 
Similar to virtual machines, a network slice is carved out of a large and common infrastructure. 

Each network slice is logically separated from the other, is an independent part of the network, and targets different services
with different requirements at the same time. This enables to build and manage a network that has the capabilities 
to meet the emerging requirements from a wide range of users and enable multi-tenancy in a multi-cluster Kubernetes setup.

### Concept of a Slice in KubeSlice

> In KubeSlice, a Slice is a Kubernetes [custom resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) defined to implement multi-tenancy in a cluster. [Multi-tenancy](link to Kubernetes guide on multi-tenancy) is when a single instance of an application or a single Kubernetes cluster can serve multiple users (called tenants) at the same time without the problems of noisy/nosey neighbour, policy and configuration drift, and resource hogging creeping in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In KubeSlice, a Slice is a Kubernetes [custom resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) defined to implement multi-tenancy in a cluster. 
[Multi-tenancy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/multi-tenancy/) is when a single instance of an application or a single Kubernetes cluster 
can serve multiple users (called tenants) at the same time without the problems of noisy/nosey neighbour, 
policy and configuration drift, and resource hogging creeping in.
```

> KubeSlice creates logical application **slice boundaries** in a cluster that allows pods and services to communicate efficiently within a cluster, across clusters on the cloud or datacenters. In order to communicate within a multi-cluster architecture, an overlay network (an application slice) following the RFC1918 protocol is created by KubeSlice that provides seamless connectivity between the pods of an application running in multiple clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KubeSlice creates logical application **slice boundaries** in a cluster that allows pods and services to 
communicate efficiently within a cluster, across clusters on the cloud or datacenters. In order to communicate 
within a multi-cluster architecture, an overlay network (an application slice) following the RFC1918 protocol is 
created by KubeSlice that provides seamless connectivity between the pods of an application running in multiple 
clusters. Existing intra-cluster communication remains local to the cluster utilizing each pod’s CNI interface. 
Kubeslice provides isolation of network traffic between clusters by creating an overlay network for inter-cluster communication.
```

There are a lot of advantages achieved with this way of implementing multi-cluster multi-tenancy in Kubernetes:

- **Better Resiliency** - Resiliency is the ability of an application to react to problems in one of its components and still provide the best possible service. By deploying an application across clusters and connecting using the slice overlay network, application services are able to achieve resiliency.

> - **Traffic Control** - The ability to control traffic across nodes and clusters. The traffic control policy is maintained for all application pods on that slice. To know more about how do we achieve traffic control, refer to the [official documentation](https://kubeslice.io/documentation/open-source/0.3.0/).

Reviewer: Could we specifically point to the page mentioning traffic control here?

> - **Traffic Control** - The ability to control traffic across nodes and clusters. The traffic control policy is maintained for all application pods on that slice. To know more about how do we achieve traffic control, refer to the [official documentation](https://kubeslice.io/documentation/open-source/0.3.0/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Traffic Control** - The traffic control policy is maintained for all application pods on a slice. To know more about how we achieve traffic control, refer to the [official documentation](https://kubeslice.io/documentation/open-source/0.3.0/).
```

- **Better App-to-App Connectivity** - Application pods on a Slice have better connectivity between them across multiple cluster boundaries. This is due to the creation of an overlay network for inter-cluster communication. This overlay network provides a dedicated connection within a slice, thus there is no need for the request to transit the internet to establish a connection between apps on a slice. This type of connectivity is referred to as East-West connectivity.

> 

Reviewer: We haven't spoken about network isolation/overlapping IPs.

Reviewer: @verma-kunal : This comment needs to be addressed, please.

---
title: What is a Slice?
description: What is a Slice? (Overlay Network & How it works in KubeSlice)
slug: what-is-a-slice
authors:
  - name: Kunal Verma
    url: https://github.com/verma-kunal
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

> [KubeSlice](https://kubeslice.io/documentation/open-source/0.3.0) is fairly a new project/tool in the cloud-native ecosystem which addresses the area and issues of [multi-tenancy](https://digitalguardian.com/blog/saas-single-tenant-vs-multi-tenant-whats-difference) and [multi-cluster](https://www.mirantis.com/cloud-native-concepts/getting-started-with-kubernetes/what-is-kubernetes-multi-cluster/) environment in Kubernetes. By definition, KubeSlice combines network, application, and deployment services in a framework to create multi-tenancy in a Kubernetes cluster and extends it to multi-cluster architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[KubeSlice](https://kubeslice.io/documentation/open-source/0.3.0) is a new project in the cloud-native ecosystem that addresses the issues of a multi-cluster multi-tenant environment in Kubernetes.
By definition, KubeSlice combines network, application, and deployment services in a framework to create multi-tenancy in a Kubernetes cluster and extends it to a multi-cluster architecture.
```

Reviewer: We'd like to limit linking within blogposts/articles to the official Kubernetes documentation OR our documentation. Third party content should be as limited as possible.

> You might be wondering, how does it do this? Basically, KubeSlice achieves this by creating logical application **Slice** boundaries that allow pods and services to communicate efficiently across clusters, clouds, and data centers.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KubeSlice achieves this by creating logical application **Slice** boundaries that allow pods and services to communicate efficiently across clusters, clouds, and data centers.  
```

> If you see here, the term **application slice** or **Slice** is mentioned. This is one of the key components in KubeSlice and in this particular article we will understand what exactly is a Slice and how it enables KubeSlice to tackle the problems that Kubernetes have in achieving multi-tenancy on a multi-cluster architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **slice** is one of the key components and in this particular article we will understand what exactly it is and how it enables KubeSlice to tackle the problems of achieving multi-tenancy on a multi-cluster architecture in Kubernetes.
```

> So let’s start!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### What is a Slice?

> One of the best real-world examples out there of a Slice is the concept of **Network Slicing** in 5G networks today. Network Slicing is a method of creating multiple unique **logical** and **virtualized** networks over a common (shared) infrastructure. You all might be familiar with remote Virtual Machines, right? Well, these are virtual servers running on the cloud or containers and are not physically present. Similarly, a network slice is carved out of a large and common infrastructure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the best real-world examples out there of a Slice is the concept of **Network Slicing** in 5G networks today. 
Network Slicing is a method of creating multiple unique **logical** and **virtualized** networks over a common (shared) infrastructure. 
Similar to virtual machines, a network slice is carved out of a large and common infrastructure. 
```

> Each network slice is logically separated from the other, is an independent part of the network, and targets different services with different requirements at the same time. This enables to build and manage a network, which has the capabilities to meet and exceed the emerging requirements from a wide range of users and that too, at the same time: the concept of multi-tenancy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each network slice is logically separated from the other, is an independent part of the network, and targets different services
with different requirements at the same time. This enables to build and manage a network that has the capabilities 
to meet the emerging requirements from a wide range of users and enable multi-tenancy in a multi-cluster Kubernetes setup.
```

### Concept of a Slice in KubeSlice

> In terms of Kubernetes, a Slice is a [custom resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) which can be defined and it basically describes a way to implement multi-tenancy in a cluster. Multi-tenancy is a concept wherein a single instance of an application or a single Kubernetes cluster can serve multiple user (called tenants) at the same time and is able to withstand that much amount of load.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In terms of Kubernetes, a Slice is a Kubernetes [custom resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) which can be defined, and it basically describes a way to implement multi-tenancy in a cluster. Multi-tenancy is a concept wherein a single instance of an application or a single Kubernetes cluster can serve multiple users (called tenants) at the same time and is able to withstand that much amount of load.
```

> In terms of Kubernetes, a Slice is a Kubernetes [custom resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) which can be defined, and it basically describes a way to implement multi-tenancy in a cluster. Multi-tenancy is a concept wherein a single instance of an application or a single Kubernetes cluster can serve multiple users (called tenants) at the same time and is able to withstand that much amount of load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In KubeSlice, a Slice is a Kubernetes [custom resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) defined to implement multi-tenancy in a cluster. [Multi-tenancy](link to Kubernetes guide on multi-tenancy) is when a single instance of an application or a single Kubernetes cluster can serve multiple users (called tenants) at the same time without the problems of noisy/nosey neighbour, policy and configuration drift, and resource hogging creeping in.
```

> You might be wondering, how does the creation of a Slice an essential part of KubeSlice and helps in achieving the goals of multi-tenancy?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Well, KubeSlice actually creates these logical application **slice boundaries** in a cluster, that allows pods and services to communicate efficiently within a cluster, across clusters as well as on cloud or any other data centres as well. In order to communicate in a multi-cluster architecture, an overlay network (an application slice) is created which provides seamless connectivity between the pods of an application running in multiple clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Well, KubeSlice actually creates these logical application **slice boundaries** in a cluster, that allows pods and services to communicate efficiently within a cluster, across clusters as well as on the cloud or any other data center as well. In order to communicate in a multi-cluster architecture, an overlay network (an application slice) is created which provides seamless connectivity between the pods of an application running in multiple clusters.
```

> Well, KubeSlice actually creates these logical application **slice boundaries** in a cluster, that allows pods and services to communicate efficiently within a cluster, across clusters as well as on the cloud or any other data center as well. In order to communicate in a multi-cluster architecture, an overlay network (an application slice) is created which provides seamless connectivity between the pods of an application running in multiple clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KubeSlice creates logical application **slice boundaries** in a cluster that allows pods and services to communicate efficiently within a cluster, across clusters on the cloud or datacenters. In order to communicate within a multi-cluster architecture, an overlay network (an application slice) following the RFC1918 protocol is created by KubeSlice that provides seamless connectivity between the pods of an application running in multiple clusters.
```

> Therefore, due to this **slice overlay network**, pods are able to communicate seamlessly across cluster boundaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You may ask a question here, what are some of the benefits we get due to the creation of the slice overlay network?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may ask a question here, what are some of the benefits that we get due to the creation of the slice overlay network?
```

> You may ask a question here, what are some of the benefits that we get due to the creation of the slice overlay network?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> There are a lot of advantages achieved here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a lot of advantages achieved with this way of implementing multi-cluster multi-tenancy in Kubernetes:
```

> - **Better Resiliency** - In layman language, Resiliency is the ability an application to react to problems in one of its components and still provide the best possible service. By deploying an application across clusters and connecting using the slice overlay network, application services get better resiliency

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Better Resiliency** - In layman's language, Resiliency is the ability of an application to react to problems in one of its components and still provide the best possible service. By deploying an application across clusters and connecting using the slice overlay network, application services get better resiliency
```

> - **Better Resiliency** - In layman's language, Resiliency is the ability of an application to react to problems in one of its components and still provide the best possible service. By deploying an application across clusters and connecting using the slice overlay network, application services get better resiliency

Reviewer: Could we go a bit further and explain how they become more resilient? In the sense, how does the overlay network actually help with bettering resiliency? Does it provide isolation/failover capabilities? We need to explain that here.
```suggestion
- **Better Resiliency** - Resiliency is the ability of an application to react to problems in one of its components and still provide the best possible service. By deploying an application across clusters and connecting using the slice overlay network, application services are able to achieve resiliency.
```

> - **Traffic Control** - The ability to control traffic across nodes and clusters. The traffic control policy is maintained for all application pods on that slice.

Reviewer 2: You may also mention how it handles the challenges of overlapping IPs.

Author: Sure @neelanjan00 ! Would add this over the weekend & thanks for the above changes :)

> - **Traffic Control** - The ability to control traffic across nodes and clusters. The traffic control policy is maintained for all application pods on that slice.

Reviewer: Need to elaborate on this further, as well. How do we achieve control? Link to the documentation.
```suggestion
- **Traffic Control** - The ability to control traffic across nodes and clusters. The traffic control policy is maintained for all application pods on that slice.
```

Author: Sure @divya-mohan0209 . Will add this

> - **Better App-to-App Connectivity** - Application pods on a Slice have better connectivity between them across multiple cluster boundaries.

Reviewer: Again - why do they have better connectivity? You need to explain that within a slice the overlay network provides a dedicated connection & as a result, for establishing connection between applications on a slice there is no requirement for the request to traverse through the internet. That type of connectivity is known as east-west connectivity.
```suggestion
- **Better App-to-App Connectivity** - Application pods on a Slice have better connectivity between them across multiple cluster boundaries.
```

Author: Noted! Will work on this

> And we are at the end of this article. There is a lot to cover in terms how KubeSlice works and can be beneficial for your product and organisation, but let’s leave that for another day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If you want to explore more about KubeSlice, do refer the [official documentation](https://kubeslice.io/documentation/open-source/0.3.0/). If you face any issue while following along or want to know more about the project, we encourage you to raise questions in the *`#kubeslice`* channel on the [Kubernetes slack](https://slack.k8s.io/) where we hang out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to explore more about KubeSlice, do refer to the [official documentation](https://kubeslice.io/documentation/open-source/0.3.0/). If you face any issue while following along or want to know more about the project, we encourage you to raise questions in the *`#kubeslice`* channel on the [Kubernetes slack](https://slack.k8s.io/) where we hang out.
```

> Until next time!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: What is a Slice?
description: What is a Slice? (Overlay Network & How it works in KubeSlice)
slug: what-is-a-slice
authors:
  - name: Kunal Verma
    url: https://github.com/verma-kunal
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

[KubeSlice](https://kubeslice.io/documentation/open-source/0.3.0) is a new project in the cloud-native ecosystem that addresses the issues of a multi-cluster multi-tenant environment in Kubernetes.

> By definition, KubeSlice combines network, application, and deployment services in a framework to create multi-tenancy in a Kubernetes cluster and extends it to a multi-cluster architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project combines network, application, and deployment services in a framework to create multi-tenancy in a Kubernetes cluster and extends it to a multi-cluster architecture.
```

> KubeSlice achieves this by creating logical application **Slice** boundaries that allow pods and services to communicate efficiently across clusters, clouds, and data centers.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It achieves this by creating a logical application boundary known as a **Slice** that allows pods and services to communicate efficiently across clusters, clouds, and data centers.  
```
